
# SwEnt Milestone 1 Feedback

This first milestone M1 serves as a checkpoint at which we provide you with formal feedback on how you are coming together as a team, organizing yourselves, adopting good software engineering practices, and making progress toward delivering incremental value to your users. This is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback from your coaches given during the weekly meetings or asynchronously on Discord, email, etc.

The goal of our evaluation is not to assess whether you are top-tier Android developers or software testers, this will be assessed in earnest in subsequent milestones, once you've had the opportunity to gain experience and acquire the relevant skills. You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M1 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M1.md) document.

We looked at several aspects, grouped into three categories: app design, app quality & delivery, and Scrum.

- [App Design](#app-design)

  - [Architecture](#architecture)

  - [Implementation](#implementation)

  - [Figma](#figma)

  - [UI](#ui)

- [Quality & Delivery](#quality-&-delivery)

  - [Automated Testing](#automated-testing)

  - [Automated Delivery](#automated-delivery)

  - [End-to-End Application Behavior](#end-to-end-application-behavior)

- [Scrum](#scrum)

  - [Documents](#documents)

  - [Backlogs & Planning](#backlogs-&-planning)

# App Design

## Architecture

We looked at the high-level design of your app. We checked whether the UI, data layer, and corresponding dependencies are present. We evaluated whether your architecture diagram is of good quality and reflects the architecture of the app.

The architecture diagram you provided contains adequate categories !

The diagram is of good quality and describes well your architecture. Good job!

For this part, you received 5 points out of a maximum of 5.

## Implementation

We looked at several implementation aspects, such as whether authentication is done safely, whether all sensitive data is properly safeguarded using crypto and secure APIs, and whether the permissions requested by your app are truly needed.

You are using Firebase for your login, which is a secure way to do it.

We did not find any secret documents or API key in your repo. Nice job in securing your sensitive data!

You did not ask for unnecessary permission on the user's phone, nice !

For this part, you received 5 points out of a maximum of 5.

## Figma

We reviewed how you used Figma in these first Sprints of your project. We took into account whether you had done wireframes and mockups, whether these contained the main application flows and the core features, and whether the screens were linked. Overall, we wanted to see whether it's clear how the pieces work together.

Both your wireframe and mockups are present in the figma.

The main flows of your application are correctly and coherently represented in both your wireframe and mockup, nice work !

The mockup is pleaseant to use in the "showcase" mode, everything is correctly linked together, good job !

For this part, you received 15 points out of a maximum of 15.

## UI

We checked whether the elements of your app's UI are consistent (fonts, colors, etc.) and whether the layout is responsive (i.e., adapts to different screen sizes and orientations).

The UI of your app is consistent and looks good ! (+ The MapBox Map was a good choice, it's really pleasant to use ! )

When rotating the phone, we weren't able to log in and some of the content was hidden. Please make your UI responsive. (This can be done with lazy columns and sizes in % of the screen)

For this part, you received 3 points out of a maximum of 5.

# Quality & Delivery

## Automated Testing

We looked at whether you configured your CI to integrate with Sonar, whether your CI passes, and of course whether your CI automatically runs the test suite. Then we checked the statement coverage achieved by your test suite. We also looked at whether you have at least one meaningful UI test per screen, one meaningful unit test per repository, one meaningful unit test per view-model, and one meaningful end-to-end test.

As already discussed during this sprint, your CI is not able to provide the data to sonar, which should be fixed as soon as possible.

The CI that was ran when merging the last PR into main has passed, good job !

Your CI is running the tests you wrote and seems to be working properly with regard to testing.

You achieved a line coverage >= 80%, congratulations ! This is good and should be kept throughout each sprint 

You tested each of your screens with meaningful tests, nice work !

We were a bit confused about the location of your unit tests. They should normally be in the test directory, not the androidTest. (A repository has his test in test/ and the others in androidTest/). Also, we were not able to find the test for your user repository

Most of your view models are tested. Be careful with methods like Thread.sleep() which can be replaced with more suitable functions that dynamically wait for the right functions to render their expected behaviour.

We did not find any end-to-end tests in your repository. Try to work towards that goal for next sprints!
EDIT: There in fact was one, points are now awarded

For this part, you received 29 points out of a maximum of 33.

## Automated Delivery

We checked whether you have set up your CI to automatically build the APK, and it does so successfully. We also wanted to see if the APK could be installed and run on a real device.

Your GitHub worflow for creating APK works but in your M1 release, you did not provide the right artifact. This one was crashing and we therefore checked for another run of the workflow to find a working APK. Make sure to test the submitted APK for next time !

We did not experience any issues while installing the APK on our phone. It could be installed and ran successfully. Good job!

For this part, you received 6 points out of a maximum of 7.

## End-to-End Application Behavior

We then interacted with your app manually, this was fun. We flagged any problems we encountered, such as crashes or bugs, and we classified the bugs into minor vs. major bugs.

We found some buttons with no actions triggered when pressed, which should be avoided (at least make a toast telling that the feature is unavailable)

Major bugs found in the app:
- Authentication doesn't work, surely due to the signing of the APK

No crashes happened during our tests, well done !

For this part, you have been penalized -3 points.

# Scrum

## Documents

The main things we looked for was whether you documented your team Retrospective and Stand-Up in a timely and thorough manner.

You successfully completed the Team retrospective sheets on time!

You successfully completed the standup retrospective sheets on time!

You filled the team sheets properly, but you could have added a bit more details in the Stand-Up minutes

For this part, you received 8 points out of a maximum of 10.

## Backlogs & Planning

We analyzed your product backlog, Sprint 3 backlog, and the Scrum board. For the PB, we checked whether it was up-to-date and whether you had populated it with user stories for the first epic and for a second epic. For the Sprint 3 backlog, we looked at whether it was up-to-date and whether the task descriptions were clear. We looked at whether tasks were assigned, whether they had a time estimate, and whether they had a priority. Finally, we evaluated whether your
Scrum board was up-to-date and ready for Sprint 3.

Your product backlog contains coherent and well written user stories that define well your app !

You properly included user stories that were linked to your first epic in your sprint backlog

You properly included user stories that were linked to your second epic in your sprint backlog

Your sprint backlog is well organized and contains relevant tasks for next sprint !

The titles of your tasks are well chosen and clear !

All the tasks are assigned to team members. Good sprint planning!

The tasks in the sprint backlog all have a time estimate !

Some of the tasks do not have a priority assigned to them. Make sure to add for your next sprints as it allows you to know which tasks to tackle on first.

Your scrumboard is up to date and ready for sprint 3, congratulations !

For this part, you received 19 points out of a maximum of 20.

Based on the above points, your intermediate grade for this milestone M1 is 5.35. If you are interested in how this fits into the bigger grading scheme, please see [project README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/private/blob/main/project/README.md) and the [course README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/README.md).

Your coaches will be happy to discuss the above feedback in more detail.

Good luck for the next Sprints!
